unpublished/freedom-of-speech.md, before:

---
title: Reformulating 'Freedom of Speech'
tags:
- politics
- philosophy
- rant
---

So, first off, I think that the idea of 'Freedom of Speech' is incoherent on usual readings, and under a more straightforward reading becomes quite different from what people actually want it to mean.

###Freedom to Hear



###Freedom of Thought

That is, I can disagree with a law or a governmental decree, as long as I comply with it. For example I can be sharply critical of an employment regulation requiring me to provide health insurance to my employees for things that I think they should die of[^1]. I can campaign to get the regulation changed, or file lawsuits against it in a legal manner, or protest it, or say bad things about it, as long as I obey it while it is in effect. That is, no law can contain or be construed to contain a self-protecting clause, or a clause that immunises it from critique or lawful opposition.

###Freedom to Protest

I see this as the ability to send an expensive signal which is less severe than insurrection. As such, suppressing these also suppresses the ability for elites to gather information; they can end up trapped in a bubble that ends with either excessive misery for everyone else[^2], or them being brutally murdered and then a period of middling misery for everyone left.

###Freedom of Private Speech

Countervailing forces
---------------------

- Privacy Rights
- Libel
- Truthfulness requirements in news reporting
- Disclosure requirements in conflict of interest cases

    Basically, there can be legal consequences for not disclosing conflicts of interest

- Testimony 'under oath', or for the purposes of trials

    Basically, there can be legal consequences for lying under oath.

- Obscenity or Public Morality or Lese Majeste or Blasphemy or De-Nazification or etc laws.

    I do not have much tolerance for these kinds of laws; they seem to be somewhat tolerable only in two different cases:
    1. To create a 'safe' public sphere. That is, when they accurately reflect the actual, private feeling of a supermajority - not just the public seeming, and not just a majority or vocal minority - such that a non-representative group cannot cause almost everyone distress that they cannot escape from. This kind of thing can therefore only apply when the standards of 'decency' actually match what is privately acceptable to the supermajority, and can only apply to mass public communication where there is no opt in or opt out. So, billboards, public television during 'prime time', primary and secondary school, prominent locations in supermarkets or on utilities, and so forth. Private, opt-in and opt-out speech should all not be able to be affected.
    2. For a clear public good unrelated to the law as such. For example, the Dutch have de-Nazification laws which are designed to block what amount to trolls whose speech is disruptive to the level of the public debate.

- 'It isn't the speech as such that we are regulating' laws.

    For example, we restrict the sale of liquor to minors, we have regulations about copyrighted works and pornography being shown commercially, etc. This seems commonsensical, but I have not been able to formulate it rigorously in a way that doesn't lead to absurd conclusions.

- 'Abyssal Incursion containment'

    If there were information that was as problematic as the Necronomicon, the Red Word of the Prince of 100,000 Leaves, The Killing Joke, or instructions on how to build pocket nukes out of common household items needing only an ordinary level of knowledge to follow, I can see controls on that being a good thing. But the information would have to be on that order; an existential threat to humanity. These kinds of things are contingent on what constitutes 'common household items' and 'an ordinary level of knowledge'; for example, with biological synthesis tools getting cheaper and more usable, parts of the recent research into creating 'world killer' flu virus strains may soon qualify as this.

[^1]: Used as an example due to the current kerfuffle in the US with some small groups of employers wanting to be able to restrict the healthcare insurance coverage they are required by law to offer to their employees so that it does not apply to medical procedures that they object to their employees being able to have access to, such as reproductive health issues (many Christian groups); blood transfusions (Mormons); anything involving technology or medical science, or involving government assistance (the Amish); psychiatric services, counselling (Scientologists); anything involving having to provide insurance cover at all, the stupid parasites should die (Objectivists, some Anarcho-Capitalists, some Right Libertarians). Ultimately it looks to an outsider like the religious posturing is just that, and is not really representative of the various listed faiths.
[^2]: It seems straightforward that the only way to rule people in a way that they are utterly against is to torture them into nonhuman drones, and murder the ones who are resistant to torture. See eg Algeria under French rule.

Commit message:

I am not in favour of locking away that which is dead and dreaming; sealed horrors should remain sealed to exactly the extent that the reality of the living does not provide fertile ground for them.

unpublished/freedom-of-speech.md, after:

---
title: Reformulating 'Freedom of Speech'
tags:
- politics
- philosophy
- rant
---

So, first off, I think that the idea of 'Freedom of Speech' is incoherent on usual readings, and under a more straightforward reading becomes quite different from what people actually want it to mean.

Some things that it is used to mean, which I think are bad:

###Freedom from consequence

If you walk up to me in a bar and start shit talking me and won't stop, you may end up being sternly chastised, either by me, or by my friends who are annoyed on my behalf.

###Freedom to Hear



###Freedom of Thought

That is, I can disagree with a law or a governmental decree, as long as I comply with it. For example I can be sharply critical of an employment regulation requiring me to provide health insurance to my employees for things that I think they should die of[^1]. I can campaign to get the regulation changed, or file lawsuits against it in a legal manner, or protest it, or say bad things about it, as long as I obey it while it is in effect. That is, no law can contain or be construed to contain a self-protecting clause, or a clause that immunises it from critique or lawful opposition.

###Freedom to Protest

I see this as the ability to send an expensive signal which is less severe than insurrection. As such, suppressing these also suppresses the ability for elites to gather information; they can end up trapped in a bubble that ends with either excessive misery for everyone else[^2], or them being brutally murdered and then a period of middling misery for everyone left.

###Freedom of Private Speech

Countervailing forces
---------------------

- Privacy Rights
- Libel
- Truthfulness requirements in news reporting
- Disclosure requirements in conflict of interest cases

    Basically, there can be legal consequences for not disclosing conflicts of interest

- Testimony 'under oath', or for the purposes of trials

    Basically, there can be legal consequences for lying under oath.

- Obscenity or Public Morality or Lese Majeste or Blasphemy or Hate Speech or De-Nazification or etc laws.

    I do not have much tolerance for these kinds of laws; they seem to be somewhat tolerable only in two different cases:
    1. To create a 'safe' public sphere. That is, when they accurately reflect the actual, private feeling of a supermajority - not just the public seeming, and not just a majority or vocal minority - such that a non-representative group cannot cause almost everyone distress that they cannot escape from. This kind of thing can therefore only apply when the standards of 'decency' actually match what is privately acceptable to the supermajority, and can only apply to mass public communication where there is no opt in or opt out. So, billboards, public television during 'prime time', primary and secondary school, prominent locations in supermarkets or on utilities, and so forth. Private, opt-in and opt-out speech should all not be able to be affected by this case.
    2. For a clear public good unrelated to the law as such. For example, the Dutch have de-Nazification laws which are designed to block what amount to trolls whose speech is disruptive to the level of the public debate. The de-Nazification laws of Franch and Germany are not about this; they are about keeping things which are dead and dreaming locked away. As such, the French and German de-Nazification laws do not fit in this case; I do not agree with them. Anti hate-speech laws which are enacted to prevent bullying and random assassinations rather than to protect people's delicate sensibilities would fall under this case: as they generally block speech which takes place in an opt-in or opt-out manner as well as taking place in mass public communications they could not be placed under case 1, above.

- 'It isn't the speech as such that we are regulating' laws.

    For example, we restrict the sale of liquor to minors, we have regulations about copyrighted works and pornography being shown commercially, etc. This seems commonsensical, but I have not been able to formulate it rigorously in a way that doesn't lead to absurd conclusions.

- 'Abyssal Incursion containment'

    If there were information that was as problematic as the Necronomicon, the Red Word of the Prince of 100,000 Leaves, The Killing Joke, or instructions on how to build pocket nukes out of common household items needing only an ordinary level of knowledge to follow, I can see controls on that being a good thing. But the information would have to be on that order; an existential threat to humanity. These kinds of things are contingent on what constitutes 'common household items' and 'an ordinary level of knowledge'; for example, with biological synthesis tools getting cheaper and more usable, parts of the recent research into creating 'world killer' flu virus strains may soon qualify as this.

[^1]: Used as an example due to the current kerfuffle in the US with some small groups of employers wanting to be able to restrict the healthcare insurance coverage they are required by law to offer to their employees so that it does not apply to medical procedures that they object to their employees being able to have access to, such as reproductive health issues (many Christian groups); blood transfusions (Mormons); anything involving technology or medical science, or involving government assistance (the Amish); psychiatric services, counselling (Scientologists); anything involving having to provide insurance cover at all, the stupid parasites should die (Objectivists, some Anarcho-Capitalists, some Right Libertarians). Ultimately it looks to an outsider like the religious posturing is just that, and is not really representative of the various listed faiths.
[^2]: It seems straightforward that the only way to rule people in a way that they are utterly against is to torture them into nonhuman drones, and murder the ones who are resistant to torture. See eg Algeria under French rule.
