unpublished/political-position-considerations.md, before:

---
title: Some considerations on my political position
tags:
- musing
- politics
- philosophy
---

This post was prompted by trying to untangle my beliefs over property, hierarchy, legitimacy of governance, capital and rent, and function of the state.

Money as sensor
---------------

- Provides a way for people to non-hierarchically work together
- Independant agents...
- Forces information about true preferences in a way that discussion and voting do not necessarily
- Stored work
- Breaking work into bits ie fungibility, liquidity, unit of account, etc
- Using it this way however means that any significant revenue from bogus sources will make you insane

Money as Macguffin
------------------

- I do not want money to be able to do arbitrary things. Examples:
  - ... buying success rather than buying training. This applies especially to the problem of children and friends; a rich persons children and friends should have more training, and better stuff, which allows for the potential to be better, and thus pass a filter. It should not, however, allow one to get a better shot through or bypass entirely a filter in a way unconnected to ability.
  - Bypassing social mores. That is to say, it is fine to have more and better stuff; what is not fine is when you can live in a totally different universe.

Capital
-------

- Causes 


Hierarchy
---------

- Dynasties bad
- Cleric classes can be good - specialisation, specialist knowledge, useful social roles or social contracts (ie doctor, laywer, confessor)
- In some specific situations hierarchy seems to work exceptionally better than other alternatives ie the military
- The cybernetic problem
  - Problems with getting true information
  - Decisionmakers divorced from the consequences of their decisions
  - Moral hazard
  - Regulatory capture
  - The Principal-Agent problem
- Delayed open vs true open
  - True open is 


Inequality
----------
- 'Natural' inequality due to power laws (ie c^n) and differences in ability, motivation, luck, desire
- 'Bad' inequality
  - Systemic inequality - a part of the violence in the machine
  - Oligarcy and Kleptocracy


The state and agression
-----------------------

I do not find that the non-aggression principle or non-initiation principle are compelling, in that...

I also think that as soon as you have something that is substantially identical to 'the state', you have the state. So, if there were some kind of state free land area, and I were to set up a limited capital society within it that had geographic bounds, taxation, laws, a military, citizenship... even if it was more horizontal than vertical, and used more direct democracy than representative democracy, it would be a state.

As for the violence of imposition of tax and law, I happen to believe that if tax is progressive rather than regressive, and law is given by a body that has the mandate of the people, then these can be just, and thus can be said (in the absence of actual violence required to impose them) to not be violent.

And basically that **if** you have the consent of the governed, **then** you can govern without (significant) violence; (significant) violence should only become necessary to maintain the function of a state when it does not have the consent of the governed, and thus should be overthrown or in some other way changed anyway.

Commit message:

Move talk about the NAP to its own section.

unpublished/political-position-considerations.md, after:

---
title: Some considerations on my political position
tags:
- musing
- politics
- philosophy
---

This post was prompted by trying to untangle my beliefs over property, hierarchy, legitimacy of governance, capital and rent, and function of the state.


First, an aside about verbal violence. 'Hierarchy' - lit. 'Sacred Order'. Hmm. To continue with this, consider the use to which the word 'violence' is being put.


Money as sensor
---------------

- Provides a way for people to non-hierarchically work together - that is, the magic happens when we have independant agents 
- Forces information about true preferences in a way that discussion and voting do not necessarily
- Stored work
- Breaking work into bits ie fungibility, liquidity, unit of account, etc
- Using it this way however means that any significant revenue from bogus sources will make you insane

Money as Macguffin
------------------

- I do not want money to be able to do arbitrary things. Examples:
  - ... buying success rather than buying training. This applies especially to the problem of children and friends; a rich persons children and friends should have more training, and better stuff, which allows for the potential to be better, and thus pass a filter. It should not, however, allow one to get a better shot through or bypass entirely a filter in a way unconnected to ability.
  - Bypassing social mores. That is to say, it is fine to have more and better stuff; what is not fine is when you can live in a totally different universe.

Capital
-------

- Causes 


Hierarchy
---------

- Dynasties bad
- Cleric classes can be good - specialisation, specialist knowledge, useful social roles or social contracts (ie doctor, laywer, confessor)
- In some specific situations hierarchy seems to work exceptionally better than other alternatives ie the military
- The cybernetic problem
  - Problems with getting true information
  - Decisionmakers divorced from the consequences of their decisions
  - Moral hazard
  - Regulatory capture
  - The Principal-Agent problem
- Delayed open vs true open
  - True open is 


Inequality
----------
- 'Natural' inequality due to power laws (ie c^n) and differences in ability, motivation, luck, desire
- 'Bad' inequality
  - Systemic inequality - a part of the violence in the machine
  - Oligarcy and Kleptocracy


The NAP
-------

I do not find that the non-aggression principle or non-initiation principle make any sense at all; my reasoning is not particularly original, but I should probably set it out as a matter of logical politeness.

The state and agression
-----------------------


I also think that as soon as you have something that is substantially identical to 'the state', you have the state. So, if there were some kind of state free land area, and I were to set up a limited capital society within it that had geographic bounds, taxation, laws, a military, citizenship... even if it was more horizontal than vertical, and used more direct democracy than representative democracy, it would be a state.

As for the violence of imposition of tax and law, I happen to believe that if tax is progressive rather than regressive, and law is given by a body that has the mandate of the people, then these can be just, and thus can be said (in the absence of actual violence required to impose them) to not be violent.

And basically that **if** you have the consent of the governed, **then** you can govern without (significant) violence; (significant) violence should only become necessary to maintain the function of a state when it does not have the consent of the governed, and thus should be overthrown or in some other way changed anyway.
